# Comments

## General

Due to time constraints my main focus was to implement all 3 tasks, and make them to work. UI and new features integration i left behind.  
In this few paragraphs i will explain some critical points where one or another decision was made and why.  
If there will be any questions reviewing my project, the answer should be in this document. If not, please write me and i will try to answer all your questions.  


## Database

Database scheme was generated by given _json_ file, without intension to extend it to real _e-shop_ database. This scheme is extendable with a minor changes to the database and code itself.  
In the other way, let's say making real _e-shop_ app i would change this scheme a bit. Now each product specs is as a column in productspecs table. So i order to add new spec, we must add new column. In a real application i would change this table to key-value pairs and would add two another tables (_Specs_, _SpecsValues_). _Specs_ would store all availabe specs, and _SpecValues_ would store _SpecsID_ and _Value_. Then _ProductSpecs_ table only would store _ProductId_ and _SpecsValuesId_. Then you can easily load Specs to filter blocks in frontend, all specs would have their Id, and filtering would be based on specs Ids instead of specs values matching.  
Images table are designed as key-value pairs, in order to add new image sizes easily.


## Project architecture, patterns

_.NET core_ was chosen as a framework for this product.  
First thing that came to my mind was to do _SPA_ application, but later i realized it would take more time to implement it, so i decided to stick to _MVC_ and _ajax_. Past few years I been working on quite large _SPA_ application , so if you are interested to check it out i can send you a link.  
There is one project in the solution. In case of a large real life application i would separate solution to several products.  
As for patterns i have chosen _Service Layer_ pattern. Some might say that services can't have calls to DB, but in my opinion when application is small, and has not so much bussiness logic you can inject _Data Access layer_ into _Services Layer_.  
In case of a large real life application i would separate things into suchs layers: _Controller_ -> _Service_ -> _Repository_. Where _Controller_ would be responsible for interaction with user, _Service_ woudl be responsible for all bussiness logic and _Repository_ would be responsible for accessing data from DB.


## BackEnd

As there are only two main methods at backend part, there is not so much to say. Only one thing to mention that mapping _Domain model_ to _View model_ could be done usint _Automapper_.


## FrontEnd

Frontend part is a bit tricky. As your sent example was working with # urls i decided stick to this plan to, and build small _SPA_ framework. As there are only ~150 lines (with empty lines) in javascript side, i thought it was no need to try to separate it to several classes. In case of a large real life application i would separate js part to classes by their responsibilities.  
<br>
<br>
If there is still something unclear and there is no answer for that in this doc **please don't hesitate to ask me personaly**
